---
layout: single
title: "4.Paging"
categories: Systempro
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
toc_label: "페이지 주요 목차"
classes: wide

#published: false
---

## 4.2 HIERARCHICAL PAGING STRUCTURES: AN OVERVIEW

> All three paging modes translate linear addresses using **hierarchical paging structures.** This section provides an overview of their operation. Section 4.3, Section 4.4, and Section 4.5 provide details for the three paging modes.   
> Every paging structure is 4096 Bytes in size and comprises a number of individual entries. With 32-bit paging,each entry is 32 bits (4 bytes); there are thus 1024 entries in each structure. With PAE paging and 4-level paging,each entry is 64 bits (8 bytes); there are thus 512 entries in each structure. (PAE paging includes one exception, apaging structure that is 32 bytes in size, containing 4 64-bit entries.)

언급한 세 종류의 페이징는 **계층적구조**(hierarchical paging structures)를 사용한다.  
모든 페이징 구조는 4096 Byte  크기이며 개별적인 Entry가 존재한다.

- 32-bit Paging 모드에서는 1024 entry x 32 bit  
- PAE 페이징과 4-Level 페이징에서는 512 entry x 64 bit 

> The processor uses **the upper portion of a linear address to identify a series of paging-structure entries.** The last of these entries identifies the physical address of the region to which the linear address translates **(called the page frame)**. 
> 
> **The lower portion of the linear address (called the page offset) identifies the specific address** within that region to which the linear address translates.

리니어 주소의 상단부는 페이지 구조 entry를 나타내는  page frame과 특별한 주소 형태인 page offset으로 구성됨

> Each paging-structure entry contains a physical address, which is either the address of **another paging structure** or the **address of a page frame.** In the first case, the entry is said to **reference** the other paging structure; in the latter, the entry is said to **map a page**. The **first paging structure used for any translation is located at the physical address in CR3**. A linear address is translated using the following iterative procedure. A portion of the linear address (initially the uppermost bits) selects an entry in a paging structure (initially the one located using CR3). If that entry references another paging
> structure, the process continues with that paging structure and with the portion of the linear address immediately below that just used. If instead the entry maps a page, the process completes: the physical address in the entry is that of the page frame and the remaining lower portion of the linear address is the page offset.

각각의 페이징 구조 entry는,  Paging 구조 주소 또는 Page frame 주소를 가지고, 각각 참조(Reference), 페이지 맵핑(map a page)이라 부른다.  
첫번째 페이지 구조의 주소는 CR3에저장됨  



> 
>

>The following items give an example for each of the three paging modes (each example locates a 4-KByte page
frame):<br>• With 32-bit paging, each paging structure comprises 1024 = 2^10 entries. For this reason, the translation
process uses 10 bits at a time from a 32-bit linear address. Bits 31:22 identify the first paging-structure entry
and bits 21:12 identify a second. The latter identifies the page frame. Bits 11:0 of the linear address are the
page offset within the 4-KByte page frame. (See Figure 4-2 for an illustration.)
• With PAE paging, the first paging structure comprises only 4 = 22 entries. Translation thus begins by using
bits 31:30 from a 32-bit linear address to identify the first paging-structure entry. Other paging structures
comprise 512 =29 entries, so the process continues by using 9 bits at a time. Bits 29:21 identify a second
paging-structure entry and bits 20:12 identify a third. This last identifies the page frame. (See Figure 4-5 for
an illustration.)

• With 4-level paging, each paging structure comprises 512 = 29 entries and translation uses 9 bits at a time
from a 48-bit linear address. Bits 47:39 identify the first paging-structure entry, bits 38:30 identify a second,
bits 29:21 a third, and bits 20:12 identify a fourth. Again, the last identifies the page frame. (See Figure 4-8
for an illustration.)




The translation process in each of the examples above completes by identifying a page frame; the page frame is
part of the translation of the original linear address. In some cases, however, the paging structures may be
configured so that the translation process terminates before identifying a page frame. This occurs if the process
encounters a paging-structure entry that is marked “not present” (because its P flag — bit 0 — is clear) or in which
a reserved bit is set. In this case, there is no translation for the linear address; an access to that address causes a
page-fault exception (see Section 4.7).
In the examples above, a paging-structure entry maps a page with a 4-KByte page frame when only 12 bits remain
in the linear address; entries identified earlier always reference other paging structures. That may not apply in
other cases. The following items identify when an entry maps a page and when it references another paging structure: